
This app enables exploration of differentially expressed genes from a comaprison between T cells from 
4 Older adults (55-65 years old) and 4 children (11-12 years old).

Instructions:  

1) Toggle dropdowns to change volcano plot displayed  
2) Hover over volcano plot to view gene information.  
3) Click 'Annotate Volcano' pencil icon to select gene(s) of interest to label on the volcano plot. Select
   from dropdown or by clicking/box-selecting from volcano plot, copying and pasting into the box, or selecting
   a full geneset. Click 'Update Plots' to apply feature selection to all tabs.  
4) Click individual points on the volcano plot to select a single gene to plot on the all-analysis heatmap, 
   or select a gene from the heatmap dropdown
   a) Customize the heatmap view by clicking 'Heatmap Options' gear icon and changing selections.  

Analysis Details: 

DEG Results
    In vitro DEGs were calculated using MAST for each cell type separately. Differences
    are determined for Older adults (positive fold-change values) vs children (negative fold-change values). The MAST model 
    implemented was: exp ~ age group + subject + CDR, where CDR is the cellular detection
    rate calculated as n_genes detected, mean-centered and scaled to unit variance across all cells. 
    Genes exhibiting less than 5% expression in all comparison groups in a cell type were excluded from analysis
    on a per-celltype basis.  
    
Gene Info
    Gene information is queried in real time using the mygene.info service via the mygene python package   
    
Expression Heatmap
    Heatmap displays pseudobulk gene expression values, with color indicating the average of normalized expression. 
    Expression values were computed by normalizing gene expression to total UMI counts using the `normalize_total()` function in Scanpy (v1.9.6).
    After normalization, the mean expression value was computed for each combination of sample and cell type. 
    Older adult subjects are prefixed with BR2. Pediatric subjects are prefixed with UP1.
